---
layout: post
title:	"Red Team Exercise Execution"
date:	2020-12-26 01:00:00
categories:
    - RedTeam
tags:
    - RedTeam
---
<head>
	<title> Exervise Execution | RedTeam </title>
</head>

# 1. Reconnaissance
- Important step to obtain Intial foothold onto the target
- Should have a better understanding of the target's:
    1. Network architecture: Domain names, DNS
    2. IP Space: IP Addresses owned and live hosts
    3. Technology Solutions: OSs, Servers, client application
    4. Email format and infrastructure
    5. Security Proccedures: Controls need to bypass
    6. People and culture

#### 1.1 Passive Reconnaissance
- Obtaining information about a target without engaging with their systems. This can be done using:
    1. Job Posting sites
    2. Social Networking sites
    3. Using tools to automate the process
        > - theHarvester, Social Mapped, Skiptracer, ScrapedIn, LinkScrape, truffleHog, Just-Metadata 
    4. Obtain email addresses from compromised credentials
        > - Hunter.io, pwndb, pwnedorNot

#### 1.2 Active Reconnaissance
- Obtaining information about a target by actively engaging with their systems.

# 2. Social Engineering
- Is exploiting weaknesses in human nature.
- Exervises often rely on it to support goals whether to obtain more information or to gain initial access.
- It can be performed using the following methods:
    1. Email (Phishing)
    2. Telephone (vishing)
    3. Text (smsishing)
    4. Socail Media
    5. In-person
- Should target a few people to not get caught.

# 3. Weaponization
- Is the coupling of a remote access method into a deliverable payload. Ex. PDF or MS documents as a weaponized deliverable for the malicious payload.
- Must create the payload, test it and identify IoCs.
    > - IOC is a peice of information that an adversary leaves behind that can be used as an indicator.

# 4. Delivery
#### 4.1 Email
- Send the payload to obtain intial access as an attachement in an email.
#### 4.2 Web
- Is using to avoid email security controls.
- Host the payload on a web server and social engineer target to visit, download and execute the payload.
#### 4.3 USB