---
layout: post
title:	"Cross-site scripting"
date:	2020-07-21 03:00:00
categories:
    - web
tags:
    - web
---
<head>
	<title> XSS | Web </title>
</head>
<title> Cross-site scripting </title>

# 1. Cross-site scripting
-  Attack to **inject HTML** (HTML injection) or **run code** (JavaScript) in a **user’s Web browser**. 
- An attack against **the user** of a vulnerable website. 

# 2. Why does this happen? 
- Because the **user input** is **given on output** without any kind of **sanitization** (either on input or output).

# 3. Goals of XSS
- Cookie stealing
- Getting complete control over a browser
- Perform keylogging .. etc.
- Hijack the user account.


# 4. Types of XSS
1. Reflected XSS:
	- Occurs when **untrusted user data** is sent to a web application, and it is immediately **echoed back** as the untrusted content.
	- **Browser receives** the code from the web **server response** and renders it.
	- Deals with the **server-side code**.
	- Hacker has to trick the user into starting a specially crafted request.
```
<?php
$name = @$_GET['name'];
?>
welcome <?=$name?>
```

2. Stored XSS:
	- Occurs when untrusted user data is sent to a web application, **stored within** the web application and then echoed somewhere else and might be **available to all** visitors.
	- Deals with the **server-side code**

3. DOM/Type-0/Local XSS:
	- Exists only within **client-side code** (JavaScript).
	- DOM-based XSS can even be persistent. 
	- This flaw is that the client-side script code can access the browser's DOM.
```
<h1 id='welcome'></h1>
<script>
	var w = "Welcome";
	var name =  document.location.hash.substr( 
				document.location.hash.search(/#w!/i)+3,
				document.location.hash.length );
	document.getElementById('welcome').innerHTML = w + name;
	</script>
```

4. Universal XSS 
	- Type of Cross-site Scripting leverage the flaws against the browser, its extensions or its plugins.

5. Blind XSS
	- It is a type of stored XSS where attackers input is saved by server and is reflected in a totally different application used by system admin/team member.


# 5. Finding XSS
- Figure out **what data** the **application** gives on **output** upon **user-supplied data**.
	- If the user-supplied data is part of the output, you have XSS.
	- Try to inject HTML or JS into the input(GET/POST var, Cookies, HTTP Headers.
	- Try `<plaintext>` what next of it will be treated as plain text. Works?
	- Check the possibility of injecting scripts.


# 6. Mitigation
- Input validation: to filter as much as possible the attack vectors
- Context-aware output encoding: to correctly and safely render users' content on the web application pages
- Never, ever, trust user input!!!